Migrate Drag and Drop guide (#3588)
GoogleChrome/web.dev: src/site/content/en/blog/drag-and-drop/index.md

---
title: Using the HTML5 Drag and Drop API
authors:
  - ericbidelman
  - rachelandrew
date: 2010-09-30
updated: 2020-07-29

> description:
>   The HTML5 Drag and Drop (DnD) API means that we can make almost any element on our page draggable. In this post I’ll explain the basics of Drag and Drop.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: >
  The HTML5 Drag and Drop (DnD) API means that we can make
  almost any element on our page draggable. In this post we’ll explain
  the basics of Drag and Drop.
```

> tags:
>   - html

Reviewer: ```suggestion
tags:
  - blog
  - html
  - javascript
```

---

The HTML5 Drag and Drop (DnD) API means that we can make almost any element on our page draggable.

> In this post I'll explain the basics of Drag and Drop.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this post we'll explain the basics of Drag and Drop.
```

## Creating draggable content

> It's worth noting that in most browsers, text selections, img elements, and anchor elements are draggable by default.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's worth noting that in most browsers, text selections, images, and links are draggable by default.
```

> If you drag the logo on google.com you will see the ghost image,
> the image can then be dropped in the address bar, an `<input type="file" />` element, or even the desktop.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, if you drag the Google logo on [Google Search](https://google.com) you will see the ghost image.
The image can then be dropped in the address bar, an `<input type="file" />` element, or even the desktop.
```

To make other types of content draggable you need to use the HTML5 DnD APIs.

To make an object draggable set `draggable=true` on that element.
Just about anything can be drag-enabled, images, files, links, files, or any markup on your page.

> In my example I am creating an interface to rearrange some columns,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In our example we're creating an interface to rearrange some columns,
```

## Completing the drop

To process the actual drop,
add an event listener for the `drop` event.
In the `drop` handler,
you'll need to prevent the browser's default behavior for drops,
which is typically some sort of annoying redirect.
You can prevent the event from bubbling up the DOM by calling `e.stopPropagation()`.

```js
function handleDrop(e) {
  e.stopPropagation(); // stops the browser from redirecting.
  return false;
}
```

If you run the code at this point,
the item will not drop to the new location.
To achieve this you need to use the [`DataTransfer`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/DataTransfer) object.

The `dataTransfer` property is where all the DnD magic happens.
It holds the piece of data sent in a drag action.
`dataTransfer` is set in the `dragstart` event and read/handled in the drop event.
Calling `e.dataTransfer.setData(mimeType, dataPayload)` lets you set the object's MIME type and data payload.

In this example, we're going to allow users to rearrange the order of the columns.
To do that, first you need to store the source element's HTML when the drag starts:

> TO DO add video here.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  <figure class="w-figure">
    <video controls autoplay loop muted class="w-screenshot">
      <source src="https://storage.googleapis.com/web-dev-assets/drag-and-drop/webdev-dnd.mp4" type="video/mp4">
    </video>
  </figure>
```

---
title: Using the HTML5 Drag and Drop API
authors:
  - ericbidelman
  - rachelandrew
date: 2010-09-30
updated: 2020-07-29
description: >
  The HTML5 Drag and Drop (DnD) API means that we can make
  almost any element on our page draggable. In this post we’ll explain
  the basics of Drag and Drop.
tags:
  - blog
  - html

>   - javascript

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - javascript
  - file-system
```
